there are several different myths and
misconceptions
he exploded in this video one is just
the idea that the poor are getting
poorer okay if we look at the left hand
side of this chart look at the green
lines
that does not show
the poor getting poorer let's just say
you look from 1995
to 2015. the two green lines right
this does not show the poor getting
poorer that's just a lie okay
but here's the other thing that's really
interesting
if we compare
to the purple chart on the right hand
side
wow
what a dramatic difference
the federal government makes the
lightest line the lowest quintile line
instead of going up by only 32
has gone up by 79. look at that lilac
purple line how much does it look at the
dramatic effect
of
government intervention
and redistribution
from the rich to the poor
by that gold usfa
take a look at the small numbers
on the right hand side of this chart i
can zoom in for you there between 2018
and present
that number has been hovering between 4
and 6
right
now if you've been listening
to left-wing
news media like jenk wieger on the young
turks if you've been listening to
campaign speeches and debates from
bernie sanders you will have the
preconceived notion that this statistic
you're looking at right now the rate of
wage growth in the united states is at a
crisis level
that it's so low
and that it's been so low for so long
that this is a unique crisis this is a
special problem
the united states of america has and
that other countries don't have where
they they don't have the same problem
right
and
i've never once seen jenk wieger on the
young turks i've never once seen him
make this argument or make this claim by
presenting this number or presenting
this chart and then comparing it to the
charts from other countries so you can
see this in perspective right what
what is the average person supposed to
think when they see this chart is four
percent a good number
is six percent good number is this is
this
you know consistent with the dire
warning bernie sanders is giving us
again and again
that this strange propaganda claim that
the new radicalism of bernie sanders is
justified
because of a lack of wage growth
in the united states of america
this is canada
this is canada by comparison if you
think
that
five and a half percent wage growth
is terrible
what what do you think about the economy
of canada do you see the numbers on the
right-hand side canada
you're lucky to be above three percent
right in the last several years you've
long periods of time there where it's
way way below three percent okay and
you're basically never
above four percent oh wow
now wage growth in the united states
seems quite hopeful
seems quite powerful seems quite strong
now now already we start to question
where where did this idea come from that
america's problem
is wage growth oh oh here's here's
germany
all we ever hear about in the news
is how germany has this fantastically
powerful fantastically successful
economy and it does
all we hear about is how german car
manufacturers are way more successful
than american car manufacturers and they
are
we hear about how the german high-tech
industry from the pharmaceutical
industry to the chemical industry even
they make many of the components that go
into mobile phones they make
expensive microphones all kinds of great
equipment
well we hear nothing but good things
about the the german economy we hear all
the time that germany
is the powerhouse
of the european union economy
look at the numbers on the right hand
side of the chart
wage growth in germany
lucky you're lucky to reach two percent
oh now let's look back at the united
states rate of wage growth
and you people have convinced yourselves
because you hear dishonest carpet
bagging liars like jake wieger and
bernie sanders lying to you about this
day after day after day you've convinced
yourself that america's unique problem
america's economic disadvantage in the
world is low wage growth
if you believe that if you believe the
united states is in a crisis right now
because of lack of wage growth in the
last 20 years
then wha what do you think about germany
what do you think about canada are they
on the brink of a socialist revolution
is germany is the german economy just
falling apart because of lack of wage
growth when they're lucky to reach 2
percent
[Music]
there's good news and there's bad news
the good news is i'm back with another
video offering you some analysis and
critique of bernie sanders book
our revolution the bad news is
i gave bernie sanders a little bit too
much credit in my last video now today
i'm going to be talking about the
incredibly important issue of income and
wealth inequality for the last 40 years
the american middle class has been
disappearing and more americans are
living in poverty than in almost any
point in our nation's history
since 2005 the typical middle class
family has seen its wealth go down by
more than 36
i commented that in general bernie
sanders claims that the wages of the
working poor the wages of the middle
class in america
that they have stagnated in recent
decades i said that bernie sanders seems
to avoid saying that the rich are
getting richer and the poor getting
poorer most likely because he is aware
that this is statistically untrue
[Music]
in the united states of america i showed
a whole bunch of charts to demonstrate
this fact
inequality is increasing but inequality
has been increasing because the rich are
getting richer
much much more rapidly exponentially
more rapidly than the poor are getting
richer however
still doesn't mean the poor getting
poorer that is a that is a lie but here
i find on page 191 of this book
um quote in the real world the rich are
getting richer and most everyone else is
getting poorer so there's a claim that
both the poor and the middle class
are getting poorer okay
i've already shown you guys charts
to the effect that this is false
many people just didn't want to believe
what the charts showed i got a lot of
really idiotic uh fan mail or hate mail
in response to that i love that what
some people wrote in saying oh um but
those charts don't don't account for
inflation
you're looking at a chart from like 1979
to 2010 or 2015 or something oh you
think those charts don't account for
inflation and what one of the charts it
even says right on the headline right at
the top it says real wages
real wages and cumulative growth of real
wages and uh
percentage of gross national income like
if you don't know if you don't know the
significance of real wages
in relation to inflation or
measures like percentage of gdp
percentage of gross national income in
relation to inflation i can't help you
people i mean you're looking at the
facts you're looking at the facts and
you're refusing to see what's there in
front of your face because you want to
keep believing the myth that the poor
are getting poorer
even when the facts show you the
opposite japan
this is japan
look at the numbers on the right-hand
side
japan
one of the most vibrant economies in the
world
one of the most impressive
education systems in the world
fabulous high-tech industry fabulous
export fabulous car industry
the whole gamut
japan has one of the most successful
economies and you know you know the
really messed up part
there's an argument very few of you be
willing to hear it and i think nobody in
my audience would be willing to make it
there's an argument you can present that
one of the strengths japan has is that
they've actually managed to have low
wage growth right that they haven't had
wages going up and up for all these
years that may be part of the reason why
unemployment in japan is practically
zero all the time they have such low
unemployment and they have such a
vibrant economy they have such a great
such great export-oriented industries
despite competing with china they have
to compete with china and malaysia and
indonesia and vietnam and they're still
doing great and you know what
if you think the problem in the united
states is lack of wage growth
why don't you look at japan where this
number it's lucky to be above zero
all right over 2012 the present
japan wage growth hovering around zero
now i have to put in a footnote here
japan
does not measure wage growth by the same
metric the united states does
wage growth doesn't have a standardized
measure
the same way gross domestic product does
uh it's not like there's one simple
mathematical formula and all these
countries are doing it the same way
they're not
however
in broad brush strokes what i'm saying
here is true and claims made about wage
growth that are now a major plank of
left-wing propaganda used by bernie
sanders and used by james weaker i don't
think those guys they even i don't think
they even think about
what is the argument like what's the
basis for this and what are they driving
towards this has become a mainstay of
propaganda repeated day after day after
day and i hear people echoing it back to
me unquestionably and we can explode it
just a quick google search and look at
some charts oh
financial times
u.s wage growth
stable at 3.1 percent
and if you've been paying attention
you know
3.1 is not a low number
not for canada not for germany not for
japan this is the situation we're in the
mainstream left today and here is bernie
sanders saying loud and clear two lies
two lies the first lie is the rich are
getting richer and everyone else is
getting poorer
this is the this is the first lie and
then the second lie i don't think i need
to read it out you can probably tell
within that that quotation he he claims
that congress that the federal
government of the united states is doing
nothing to deal with this
um
this reads i mean you could do an
impersonation of bernie sanders it it
sounds like it was transcribed from his
speech the writing style it's very much
like a speech
and what are the members of congress
doing about these issues i will tell you
what they are doing they are out
spending a ridiculous amount of time
raising money for their next campaigns
and then once elected they're
representing the interests of people who
funded those campaigns so he is claiming
that
the rich are getting richer the poor
getting poorer
and the federal government is doing
nothing to help the poor okay so both of
these lies
we can fact check
through a quick google search let's do
it people
here's a quote from michael r strain
i am guessing at the time this
photograph was taken michael strain
was not vegan
just to guess just to guess michael by
all means send me an email let me know
if i'm wrong i'm guessing you are not
on
a vegan diet that would be my guess
um
quote let's go with the average hourly
earnings of production and
non-supervisory employees produced by
the bureau of labor statistics about
four in five people in the labor force
are included in this group they can be
thought of roughly as workers not
managers they're often described as
typical workers and many of the
statistics use this it is a cluj that
basically excludes people like
executives and yes managers
it tries to exclude people whose pay is
not going to be in such a simple and
straightforward way based on the the
hours of labor as you know
executives may have all kinds of special
privileges and bonuses and stuff so it's
trying to look at so-called normal
workers um
using the pce to adjust for inflation
these statistics are adjusted for
inflation guys it's just
sorry if you can't interpret
really really simple
economic and social science statistics
use the pce to adjust for inflation the
wages of a typical worker have increased
by 32 percent
over the past three decades
that's a significant increase in
purchasing power
if all people hear is that wages have
been stagnant for decades as part of a
game rigged to benefit the people at the
top
they might well believe it hmm
the whole continent of africa this isn't
one country it's a weighted average for
the whole continent of africa
year 2000 to 2009
does that look like a problem in terms
of wage growth
oh
the middle east
to 2009. does that look like a crisis
does that look like it would cause
political instability due to lack of
wage growth now let's look again let's
look again at that american and german
chart
for wage growth let's ask ourselves
whether or not the rate of wage growth
united states is really a problem
whether or not the weight of rage growth
in in germany is a problem okay let's go
on to a new chart just new in the sense
that it hasn't appeared in my my prior
video you can see that the source is
from the cbo the american
congressional budget office but let's
zoom in
what are we looking at people
we're looking at on the left you see the
growth
in income
before the effect of the federal
government's intervention okay so there
is there are several different myths and
misconceptions
he exploded in this video one is just
the idea that the poor are getting
poorer okay if we look at the left-hand
side of this chart look at the green
lines
that does not show
the poor getting poorer let's just say
you look from 1995
to 2015. the two green lines right
this does not show the poor getting
poorer that's just a lie okay
but here's the other thing that's really
interesting
if we compare
to the purple chart on the right hand
side
wow
what a dramatic difference
the federal government makes and i
looked into it this is exactly what
bernie sanders was complaining but he
was complaining about congress he wasn't
complaining about the local mayor or the
local state governor he was complaining
about the federal government okay this
is not calculating the effects of state
level or city level
interventions this is just measuring the
effect of federal government
interventions and and this report from
the cbo was criticized for that reason
that it's much more complex to take into
account all 50 states and the conditions
there you'd have to have a lot more
lines in the chart but just the effect
of the redistribution of income
that the federal government
brings to the people the united states
of america is dramatic
so the the lightest line the lowest
quintile line instead of going up by
only 32
has gone up by 79. look at that lilac
purple line how much does it look at the
dramatic effect
of
government intervention
and redistribution
from the rich to the poor
by that gold usfa
so these are these are powerful myths
that the mainstream left has this isn't
like communism or socialism the
mainstream american left is clinging to
the myth the same myths that people like
bernie sanders and the other people
attending the democrat primaries that
they weave and present they're clinging
to the myth that the poor are getting
poorer they're clinging to the myth that
the federal government is doing nothing
to help her up with the board and we
just looked at a very real quantitative
measure of how dramatic the impact that
is since 2005 the typical middle class
family has seen its wealth go down by
more than 36
[Music]
for the last 40 years
the american middle class has been
disappearing
and more americans are living in poverty
than almost any point in our nation's
history
i have people sending me excuses for
bernie sanders and they're
well-intentioned they're people saying
things like well you know bernie sanders
isn't a researcher i mean like you know
bernie sanders can't be expected to
really do research about these things
bernie sanders can't be expected to have
a skeptical mind
about things he found out about decades
ago and that he's been repeating again
and again he can't be expected to
question whether or not his own beliefs
and conclusions and propaganda message
is really true well for one thing you're
putting your expectations of bernie
sanders shockingly low because this is
already one problem but then the other
question is what what's your excuse for
jenk jenkweger and a third myth
i challenge you and my audience to let
me know if you've ever heard bernie
sanders invoke this one a third myth
that's very important for the current
generation
is the myth
that capitalism will inevitably fail
will inevitably implode will inevitably
collapse or tear itself apart why
why why why why because allegedly
allegedly
capitalism requires quote-unquote
infinite resources since profit can only
be achieved through growth a capitalist
must always push production farther and
farther however production requires the
use of goods that are not infinite like
labor and natural resources since
capitalism cannot administer a limit it
will always eventually crash in other
words capitalism always ends up
destroying the hand that feeds it that
is the most laughably
unempirical
unfalsifiable dogmatic and ridiculous
claim imaginable and it falls apart just
through a simple process of socratic
dialogue like okay so
what is it that capitalism requires what
factor does capitalism require to be
infinite given that throughout its
entire history none of the factors are
production of an infinite right
capitalism doesn't need infinite labor
doesn't need infinite water doesn't need
infinite coal on the contrary the price
mechanism in capitalism is very much
tethered to the idea that all of the
factors are finite at least the amount
that's available is finite right so
actually really from a strictly
theoretical perspective
capitalism thrives on finitude and
thrives on scarcity it responds to
scarcity with the pricing mechanism but
moreover
why would this claim be made just about
capitalism if this were true if there
were any validity to this claim that
human society requires infinity to
sustain itself
why would that be true of capitalism
but not true of feudalism
like are you saying this is true the
united states of america but it's not
true of saudi arabia how does that make
sense
um it's not true of like feudal europe
year 1500 or something
how does that make sense why would this
claim if it's ultimately about you know
the things of this earth like water and
gasoline
why would it be that capitalism requires
these things to be infinite but not a
communist system a communist command
economy of the soviet union okay
meaning a corporation will run out of
resources to use or that pollution will
start to be so great that it will start
to affect the costs of production this
is the natural outcome from a system
that seeks to produce the most amount of
goods for the least amount of money
possible
capitalism is a system that needs to
perpetually grow and perpetual growth on
a finite planet with finite resources is
impossible when i look at jenk wieger i
feel the exact opposite way about him as
most of the people in my audience and
most people in his audience i think most
people
on the internet who watch this stuff
they really appreciate jank weaker's
contribution to journalism they
appreciate the entertainment and
political commentary provides but they
regard his political career as kind of a
joke it's kind of a distraction i feel
the other way around about it i think
chank wieger has an incredibly important
message to deliver about corruption what
he calls money and politics
i think he has an incredibly important
political platform not just in standing
for office and election now but also in
he's created various foundations
really targeting this issue really
trying to communicate to the public
all of your problems left wing and right
wing in the united states america are
linked to the fundamental problem that
you have cash and carry government that
people pay for influence that you know
the private sector can buy
outcomes can buy policy decisions that
you really fundamentally need to change
much more in american politics much more
than just campaign finance reforms you
need to you need to challenge the
assumptions i wish the whole system i
think that's a fundamentally brilliant
important
wholesome political message
that jankweger you know as a politician
he seems to be at the beginning of his
career as a politician not at the end i
i support him on that
unfortunately
as a journalist
i think he has absolutely no credibility
whatsoever
i think he's someone who comes on camera
and has none of the self-discipline
and none of the self-doubt
and none of the skepticism and none of
the intellectual rigor and none of the
honesty necessary to do this job this
job i'm basically doing for you right
now
for free
i'm getting paid
like five dollars a month at this point
by google but i still have the honest i
still have the rigor to just do this
little bit of a google search to just
question a piece of propaganda that i
have heard repeated out of jake wieger's
mouth again and again and again on an
almost daily basis
for years
jank weaker is the same guy
who will come on camera
and deadpan serious
you about the central park five and and
the most fundamental lie
is that he'll pretend he knows what he's
talking about
when he never once read the police
reports he never once read the court
decisions he never once read the
interviews and the confessions with
grumps he never did
the 15 minutes of research that i did on
and you know what
at some point we have to stop holding
our political leaders
to such abysmally low
standards it's not enough to say bernie
sanders is better than donald trump we
have to move forward to saying either
bernie sanders is right
or he's wrong either bernie sanders
knows what he's talking about or he does
not
either something is truth or fiction and
if you're dealing with fiction you tell
me are these lies well-intentioned
or is there some other agenda here
so
you